# Welcome to the QVEU Code Repository

The QVEU Code Repository is a central location for version control and collaboration on coding projects within the QVEU group. This repository contains tutorials (), useful scripts (), and other resources used and generated by members of the lab.

## NIAID Skyline Cluster
The NIAID Skyline Cluster is a high-performance computing (HPC) cluster that is used by researchers at the QVEU lab to do their research and store long-term data. The cluster is a shared resource that is managed by NIAID. For help, please contact NIAIDHPCSUPPORT@niaid.nih.gov and CC Patrick for tracking purposes. 

The cluster is composed of a number of compute nodes, each of which has multiple CPUs and a large amount of memory (https://skyline.niaid.nih.gov/hardware/). The nodes are connected by a high-speed network, which allows them to communicate with each other quickly and efficiently.

The cluster is an essential tool for your work in the QVEU lab.

The cluster is used for a variety of purposes, including:
- Running our analyses
- Accessing software packages for analysis
- Developing code in R, python, BASH/UNIX or others languages.
- Hosting jupyter notebooks we can access through the browser
- Storing large datasets
- Check out these links to get started. 
  - https://skyline.niaid.nih.gov/
  - https://skyline.niaid.nih.gov/scheduler/#command-overview

## Getting Started - Version Control with GitHub

We use Git for version control. It helps us disseminate our work and promote reproducibility. Use it to make your work and the work of others more efficiently and effectively.

To contribute to this or any repository, you will need to create a GitHub account and fork the repository. This creates a new, personal version of the code. Once you have forked the repository, you can clone it to your local machine or to the cluster and begin working on your changes. When you have changes that you feel are stable enough to replace the current code version, you can submit a pull request. We won’t describe Git in detail here, but many good resources exist. For beginners (and experts) the GitHub Desktop App is very helpful. 

## Coding Standards

All code should be written in accordance with the following coding standards:
Use descriptive variable and function names 
Add comments to your code to explain what it does as a favor to your future self and others. 
Test your code thoroughly, and save well documented working versions with ‘readme’ markdowns (like this one). 

## Version Control

All changes to code should be committed to this repository using Git. Please include a brief description of your changes in the commit message. Use Github Desktop if you prefer. 

## Documentation

All code should be documented using docstrings. Docstrings should include the following information:
A brief description of the function or class
The parameters of the function or class
The return value of the function or class
Any exceptions that the function or class may raise

## Testing

To the extent possible, we should aspire to test and include testing units with all finished code. Unit tests should be written in a separate file and should test the functionality of each function or class.

## Questions

If you have any questions about this repository or the coding standards, please contact Patrick Dolan, Unit Chief (Patrick.Dolan@nih.gov). 
